see static the heart of your system hi
and welcome back to a new video on my
table you can see four GTX 580 GPUs I'm
often on eBay browsing and looking for
retro hardware especially I'm still
looking for an Asus March 2 which is
essentially an GTX 580 but with a
special PCB and then I spotted that GTX
580 is pretty cheap here in Germany and
I bought four of them for a price of
about 31 to 32 euro each which is about
$120 in total and then I asked myself
how do those four keep up with a recent
chip you like a gtx 1050 TI or gtx 1650
which are a little bit more expensive
than the 4 GTX 580 on the table but a
gtx 1050 TI has about the same
transistor count it comes with 3.3
billion transistors and I think a GTX
580 had three billion transistors on the
GPU 1650 is faster than that but it's
also a little bit more expensive also in
terms of power consumption this should
be interesting
GT x 1050 TI 75 watt TDP while this has
about 250 watt TDP we will do some
comparisons with games synthetic
benchmarks and see if Quad SLI even
still works today we're starting off
with some benchmarks I already performed
with the GTX 1050 TI HDX 1650 and a
single 580 to see if everything is
working out dry revised and where we are
at when it comes to the bass performance
3d mic fire strike performance with 580
starting at 4400 76 points 10 50 TI 6900
34 points and the 1650 it comes at 9000
310 points when we are looking at power
consumption during a 3d mark fire strike
we have a peak power consumption of the
whole system with a 588 368 watt 1050 TI
253 watt 1650 at 281 watt so you can see
1050 Ti and 1650
roughly the same power consumption not
much difference like 24 difference but
the 580 is significantly higher with
about 100 watt more under load
we're going to test a three differ
Games fortnight csgo and pop G I picked
those three games because they're quite
popular and they are not as demanding as
some other recent titles on the market
and with a single 580 most of them are
still playable if you lower your
solution or lower the details starting
off with fortnight at 1080p and high
preset the 5 ad scores a 42 FPS average
32 fps in the 1% low the gtx 1050 TI 65
FPS average 53 fps one percent load gtx
1650 98 and 80 FPS for the one percent
low there for fortnight if you keep it
at high I think the 580 doesn't have
enough performance 1050 Ti and 1650 are
certainly usable if you want to play at
1080p high looking at a csgo with 1080p
high basically the same preset 580
scores 141 fps and 92 fps in the 1% low
1050 TI 183 and 123 fps 1650 with 198
and 137 fps therefore we all know that
csgo is not as demanding however a lot
of people want to see very very high FPS
for csgo I would say it's absolutely
playable with the GTX 580 especially not
many people are really using a high
preset they have their custom preset
which is not as demanding therefore a
580 should still be absolutely usable
for csgo if you're fine with about 100
FPS in the 1% low looking at pop G it's
pretty much similar to a fortnight again
1080p however using the mid preset not
the high because the high is too much
for the GTX 580 we have 46 FPS average
36 fps in the 1% low 1050 i67 and 47 fps
and 1650 comes with 78 and 64 FPS for
pop G 1050 ki and 1650 are both
absolutely usable they're not great you
will not have the best experience the
best performance already considering
that it's 1080p met and not high but
it's
usable I think you should probably aim
for the higher preset to get more FPS
like at least 100 FPS if you're playing
an FPS game like this at least that's
what I prefer when I play pop G but I
would say the 580 is absolutely not
usable in my opinion it's only usable in
csgo but not in the other two titles so
let's see if Quad SLI can change that
before we even start putting the cards
in we will see that this could be a
problem we have two times DVI and we
have mini HDMI but we don't have a
normal HDMI or DisplayPort which is what
you would usually use on a nowadays
monitor and also my test monitors only
have HDMI and DisplayPort but I also
found an older 1080p monitor that at
least has DVI so we can use that for
testing as I already mentioned before we
are using this AMD threat of a platform
using the arrows extreme motherboard
which has four slots mechanically at
least PCI Express times 16 the
requirement for Cuates lie is that you
have to use at least times eight PCI
Express on all of the four cards and
that's already a problem because all of
the modern platform like C 370z 290 am
for most of them and don't support that
you have four slots that can supply
times eight through your GPU and
therefore this could already be you a
problem who is going to buy an immediate
threat to per platform and then only
invest 120 euro into GPUs nobody is
going to do that we're going to try it
anyway by the way that's also why we
have to use this additional 6 pin PCI
Express connector usually you don't need
this one but if you occupy all four PCI
Express slots then the power supply from
the 24 pin connector is not enough
anymore and then you have to occupy this
one in addition in this case we also
have to use a very strong PSU because
for the base testing with the 580 it
already consumed over 350 watt peak
considering that it was only one GPU and
not four I think we will see some
numbers above 1000 what load and
therefore we have to use a strong PSU
[Music]
[Applause]
we also need this sli bridge Quad SLI
bridges are not that easy to find
anymore at least here in Germany and it
also depends what kind of cortez light
which you are using because there's
actually a performance difference
between those sli bridges and back then
when I was still active in the extreme
overclocking scene I did a lot of
testing when it comes to court SLI and
this particular EVGA bridge was giving
us the best performance in the
benchmarks Sheik what's your thought on
this as leverage will it work
[Music]
looks like everything is still the same
as I remember it from five six years ago
you plug in four cards and not all of
them are detected I think you have to
swap them or like reinstall the driver
and see if this will work by the way I
have to use the driver version 391 I
cannot use the latest 445 version and
that could already give the 1050 Ti and
the 1650 a performance benefit because
they can use the recent driver but for
the GTX 580 we cannot use the latest
driver anymore by the way this is during
driver install this is not even 3d load
and it's already over 500 watt just
during the driver installation and here
we go four cards detected just did a
clean and Driver installation and that
was it already also detecting that Quad
SLI is enabled which is really cool back
in the days it was often an issue that
even if you had four cards plucked or
like two or three you could often still
not enable SLI and if we cycle through
the cards by the way we can detect how
they are connected most of them are
connected either by x 8 or x 16 as you
can see we're just starting with a 3d
mark firestrike run smoothie yep that is
a solid pork consumption pretty much
what I expected I was counting for 1000
watt under load yeah 950 getting there
and here we have a typical Quad SLI
issue the performance is not at a level
where it should be and I have no idea
why it's more at a level of normal dual
or triple SLI but it's not at Quad SLI
level from what I can see or judge we
have seven thousand seven hundred points
and I think it should be above ten
thousand points no idea why we have such
a bad performance I rerun it twice
already you can see all the four GPUs
are detected Quad SLI is definitely
enabled still performance is not great
pop G is working with cortisol i but the
performance for whatever reason is worst
and with a singer card i'm still on the
way to my test location which i'm always
using for my frames but just
ketta frein times they look absolutely
horrible and it feels really not smooth
it feels we bet oops you can see that
fortnight also runs on the Quad SLI but
it runs worse than before performance
wise and the frame times are also really
bad you can see those spikes in between
again like this massive spike this was
not there before seems to be quite a bit
better in csgo 243 average right now and
just above 102 fps in the 1% low not bad
not bad let's take one more look at the
bench might fire strike we finished with
7700 64 points in the 580 Cuates like
configuration putting it between 1050 TI
and 1650 for whatever reason as I said
before it should score higher especially
because it's a synthetic benchmark not
sure what exactly is going wrong in
fortnight we lowered the performance
compared to a single 582 40 FPS average
and 13 fps in the 1% low that was
absolutely terrible pretty much the same
result in pop G also lower with 44 fps
in average and 15 fps in the 1% low only
csgo seemed to scale with the SLI
configuration and managed to boost the
performance to 248 fps in average and
110 fps in the 1% low therefore all I
can say is that cortez lie was a bad
idea
5 years ago and it's still a bit at you
because most of the games cannot work
with it and they cannot handle it the
drivers are not optimized for this at
all they never will be because Nvidia
decided to skip chorus light which was a
good idea in my opinion obviously they
could decide to sell 4 cards to an
individual customer but the hassle which
is involved in keeping the drivers up to
date for Cuates life which is only used
by a very very low amount of people I
think it's better to only stick with 2
or less light which works kind of okay
with our TX 28 ETI cards nowadays
therefore this can all
be used as a room heater and it's
absolutely heating my room in here after
like half an hour of one hour and this
thing pulling almost 1000 watt out of
the socket it's getting warm in here and
it's not even summer that's why I'm GTX
580 cause is live not a graded year
unfortunately it didn't scale as well as
I thought I would expect I would have
expected it to scale better in the
synthetic test not sure what exactly is
going wrong sometimes koalas light just
doesn't like to work and that's the way
it is thanks for joining in and see you
next time
[Music]
you